# Sleep

- the normal suspension of consciousness, takes 1/3 of our lives, and occurs in all mammals. deprivation can be fatal.
- not only a reduction of brain activity, because REM sleep can keep the brain active just as in wakeful states.

- adults require 7 - 8 hours, too little creates a sleep debt.
- sleep replenishes brain’s *glycogen*, and saves energy during the night.
    - sleep is lateralized in dolphins, which figuratively and literally sleep with 1 eye, and 1 brain open.

- Circadian Rhythm
    - is the internal clock in the absence of external cues of day/night cycles.
    - without the external cues, using only internal cues is called “free-running”
    - it works with external cues to maintain consistency, because external cues are variable

- Stages of sleep
    - defined by unique EEG characteristic
    - 5 of them, 1 of which is REM
    - EEG activity in REM is similar to wakeful state
        - Awake > Stage 1 > Stage 2 > Stage 3 > Stage 4 > REM
    
- REM (Rapid Eye Movement)
    - non-REM sleep is characterized by decreases in activity (lower heart rate, temperature, etc).
    - REM sleep has increases in physiological markers
    - REM is when dreams occur, which are visual hallucinations that include social and emotion context, and have a lack of control.
        - some theories about why we dream, are:
            - dreaming releases unwanted behaviours
            - disposes unwanted memories
            - helps consolidate memories
                - sleep-dependent learning is observes
    - humans can survive *without* REM sleep
    - neuroanatomically, it shows that there is more limbic activity, and less frontal activity
        - which makes sense, because dreams are emotional, social, and self-referential. they are not sensical.

- Consciousness
    - the opposite of sleep states, with no neurobiological explanation (yet). Logically, we cannot even be sure that other people are conscious.
    - in animals, it is reasonable to assume between it is obviously advantageous evolutionarily speaking.
        - however, which animals are “unconscious”
            - we can use the mirror test to understand if they really are conscious
    - can machines be conscious? if we reject the mind-body dualist requirement, then yes, they are.
        - we can never know, however, the Chinese Room experiment logically shows that computers are essentially *simulating* the understanding, and do without intent, so they cannot truly be conscious.
    
- Sleep disorders
    - 40% of pop. has some sleep disorder, with the most prominent being insomnia, sleep apnea, restless leg syndrome, and narcolepsy.
    - Insomnia
        - cannot get enough sleep
    - Sleep Apnea
        - interrupted breathing, so you constantly wake up
    - Restless Legs
        - constant urge or sensations in the feet, moving around
    - Narcolepsy
        - REM sleep attacks
            - Orx2 gene causes hyperexcitability of hypothalamus neurons, and treated with stimulants.
    
- Drugs
    - Benzodiazepines (downers)
    - Stimulants (caffeine)
    

---

# Article - Dream Content and Psychological Well-Being, Continuity Hypothesis (Pesant, Zadra)

- Continuity Hypothesis, content of everyday dreams reflects dreamer’s waking states and concerns.
    - thus, people with bad dreams would be low on self-reports of well-being.

- Hypo 1: proportion of neg. to pos. dream elements reported at a given time is related to scores of PWB.
- Hypo 2: changes in content of dream reports collected at two periods of their lives relate to changes in PWB scores.

- Time 1: 1991 - 1996
- Time 2: 2000 - 2001
- N = 23
    - completed PWD, completed dream study during 14 days, and performed qualitative content analysis.

- Results
    - scores of PWB and dream content at BOTH times were correlated
    - variation over time in PWB were correlated with dream content variables