[Rendering On the Web](https://web.dev/rendering-on-the-web/#:~:text=Client-side%20rendering%20(CSR)%20means%20rendering%20pages%20directly%20in,and%20keep%20fast%20for%20mobile.)
___
Single-Page applications are way to deliver applications based on dynamically rendered content, rather than static pages.
Instead of accessing static pages, SPAs utilize runtime rendering to:
1. Generate the rendered content based on some programmatic definition, whether its through *classes* or *functions*.
2. Render + Display the outcome of the programmatic content.

# Client-Side Rendering (CSR)
Simply put, client-side rendering utilizes the client's machine to run the rendering code and then display it. In order for this to happen, however we "serve" our webpage or application, what must happen is that we pass the *entire* definition of the application to the client.
- OR, we may "lazy load" *components* only when we *need* them.
The key idea is that we pass along all the files that the user needs to be able to run the code, which generates and renders the resulting HTML and Stylesheets.
-> CSR typically uses JavaScript, as it is natively able to create & manipulate the DOM

#pros:
- Not much more is necessary for the client to be able to see/view ALL components, only the base files
- This simple concept makes it simple to start creating such an app, even in vanilla JavaScript.
- JavaScript is CPU-bound and thus the time for 


#cons:
- Large-scale applications start becoming physically large in size, and sending over large files can ruin SEO and first-impressions because it takes longer for an initial load.
- Depends on the environment that the JavaScript runs in, there may be differences in the way that content gets generated
	- even moreso, certain browsers don't support certain functions (so *polyfills* are needed)

# Server-Side Rendering (SSR)
Server-side render is more complex, because there are a lot more considerations about how your application is actually served. Instead of being a single resource, your app must then set-up the ability to tell the server when and how to generate more content to send.

#pros:
- The environment that the generating code runs in is consistent and controllable
- The server specs can be upgraded for faster computation
- Because pages and components are generated **on demand**, it can be a very fast first-content paint (FCP) because the resulting HTML is small and already generated by the server

#cons:
- Much more difficult to start creating a good, efficient app because without being concerned about data caching, fetching, server loads, etc. you will never achieve the performance of a CSR.

# Universal Rendering via *hydration*
Is an way to combine philosophies of both *client* and *server* side rendering methods. This means that we can generate full page loads via the server, while supplying intermittent content data that is rendered on the client.
Hydration is a technique in which we can supply the intermediate (not-fully-loaded) HTML , while taking more time to *hydrate* those elements by attaching event handlers, etc. to hydrate the elements and make them interactive.

-> Request page from server -> Server returns static content (fast) -> Server starts working on hydrating the static content to make it interactive.


# Progressive Web Apps
Are much more complex than JavaScript, and can use a litany of other languages and technologies.

- WebAssembly
	- C / C++
	- Rust